Sisyphus (or, Could God Make a Game So Pointless Even He Couldn't Win?)
by Hazel Thexton

The myth of Sisyphus is about a man who must push a boulder up a hill, and have it roll back down, forever. We remember his punishment well. However, what many forget are his many crimes; even among the many morally ambiguous heroes of ancient greek mythology, Sisyphus was an especially deceitful and greedy man, and a murderer of innocent travelers and guests. He plotted to kill his own brother and took pleasure in killing. It would be difficult to argue that Sisyphus didn’t deserve some kind of sanction. But did he deserve this specific punishment? Doesn’t it seem kind of harsh? Well, what about a gentler one? And can any crime truly merit eternal, infinite anguish?

In this interactive webtoy, you can take the role of a Greek god and decide for yourself what he deserves. Unlike other games where you may play as Sisyphus himself, you control not him but gravity and the tilt of the very earth he walks on. Tilt your phone one way (phone held horizontally with the top to the left) and you can help Sisyphus by letting him move down the hill, tilting the ground to ease his progress. Flip your phone the other way (top of the phone to the right) and Sisyphus is once again forced to push and pull the boulder up the hill, except now you have the power to change its incline at a whim and torture him for all eternity.

Getting tired of seeing him run around? In either scenario, hold your phone completely horizontally to give him a break. However, it is simply a short pause; he cannot leave, and the slightest movement of the device forces Sisyphus to continue his punishment.

After a few minutes, inevitably, the player begins to ask: okay, cool I guess, but what is the point? When does the game end, and how do I win? The answer is it doesn’t have one, and it never ends, and you can’t win. Neither scenario seems to make Sisyphus more or less happy, after all, and even gods get bored, especially when all they’re doing is tilting a phone with no reward in sight.

The looping day and night cycle marks the passage of time without any clear ending, which of course signals the endless nature of Sisyphus’ punishment, but you, in supervising his task, are doomed to the same infinitely pointless existence as the prisoner. So is the physical labor of pushing the boulder the punishment? Or is the endlessness, the meaningless quality of the task, the real torture? At this point, never mind if Sisyphus is happy; does inflicting pointless punishment on a mere mortal, or in this case a collection of pixels, make you happy?

No punishment, or reward, can last forever. To free yourself (from the question if not necessarily from the meaninglessness itself), you must close your phone and thus, set Sisyphus free as well. 
