For this project, I initially wanted to play with object detection because I'm interested in technology as a sort of magic- the quote "Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic" by Arthur C. Clarke comes to mind. Object detection, and other relatively new technologies, are what I find create the most “magical” effects because unlike email and similarly ubiquitous programs, object detection is something that, to observers, seems to imply sentience or human thinking behavior on the part of the computer.

For many people, programming is mysterious and not well understood. Though they know logically it isn’t “magical”, it might as well be, and many people fall into superstition or magical thinking when it comes to technology, for example verbally asking the computer to please work, or believing photo editors can do things like make a person in a photo turn around. I work with children and when they see the things I program, they're amazed to realize it's within reach of anyone. I initially wanted to use tarot card recognition to play on this theme, of magic and technology as its replacement.

I ran into technical difficulties and had to change direction, unfortunately. However, learning about OpenCv and its image processing capabilities was still quite useful, and I pivoted to circle detection (which didn’t require training new classifiers), hoping to create a “magical” experience using that instead. Whether or not the circle detection is exactly accurate is not the point (and it's more sensitive than i would set it for actual circle detection), rather the idea is to “read” the image in an unexpected way, creating music out of visual data. Each circle is detected, then translated to a musical note, with the tempo of the note being based on the circumference of the circle and the frequency of the note being based on its position in the image. Then the user can hear the “sound of their image” on a loop.

Images with many even circles, like coins, produce an even-tempoed beat, whereas large photos (which tend to produce more circles) with a wide fluctuation in color, shape, and texture output a weird and haphazard tune, and small images with a few clear circles might produce a tune with only two notes.

The title is a play on words, referencing “Synesthesia”, the neurological phenomenon where people perceive visual data as audio, audio as color, and so on, and the synth I use to play the music. In essence, while the experience is simple, I’m more satisfied with the learning about OpenCv I did on the way to completing it.
