With Youtube Storytime, I attempt to take the procedural nature of children's Youtube videos and translate it to a storytime format to experiment with the strangeness that comes out of it. Not all of my results are disturbing, and in fact most are not, but it should be noted that this is also the case on Youtube; the vast majority of offerings for preschoolers is simply mediocre, not strange enough to scare parents but so low-quality and incoherent few would deliberately chose it as entertainment for their child. I point this out not to downplay the negative possibilities of genuinely scary or offensive content but to clarify the situation.

It might seem lazy to claim I am aiming for this mediocrity, but what fascinates me about these videos and about machine-generated content in general is the scarcity of these scary, strange, or incredible outliers. Because humans are what we are, the possibility of finding meaning in gibberish is exciting and almost magical. It brings to mind Borges' "The Library of Babel" and the online version at http://libraryofbabel.info/, described by Wikipedia as "a universe in the form of a vast library containing all possible 410-page books of a certain format and character set." The idea is that somewhere in the library, there is every such book fitting those parameters, as well as every book that will ever exist, etc. simply by virtue of it being infinite. Strictly speaking trying to manually find anything legible in the Library of Babel is ridiculous, but the concept of infinity is so difficult to grasp that the idea of finding a page of Shakespeare among the gibberish is exciting.

People gravitate towards things that have meaning to them, and kids are the same: only at very young ages, the things they gravitate to are less literature and more color, sound, and movement. This is why I believe the intersection of adult fascination and child fascination with kids' Youtube videos is so interesting: it's a Venn diagram with totally opposing motivations. Adults try to find the needle in the haystack of Youtube nonsense, and toddlers prefer the perfect algorithmic storm of visual and audio stimulation.

Of course my story generator is not infinite, but neither are the Youtube videos: their weirdness comes from a set database of characters and setting, mixed and matched. But I would argue that much of the weirdness comes simply from the fact that kids' content is weird, and so is what kids enjoy. And anyone who's had to take care of a young child has at one point been tempted to just leave them with the nearest entertaining object that's non-poisonous and free of sharp corners. 

In that case, why not provide them with a spinning story torus, however mediocre and unsettling it might be to an adult user?
